Finally, last little step here, docs.
So we have this thing, this other package
that we installed called API Documenter.
And what we're gonna do here is this,
yarn API documenter input temp folder,
output docs.
Where to go.
I forgot a little command there.
It's API documenter markdown.
So that's the command.
I'm gonna run API documenter.
I want it to generate mark down for me.
There's another thing you could generate
here, which I won't get into too much.
Input is the temp folder, output is
the docs folder, which by the way,
it's gonna work really nicely with GitHub.
So I now have a docs folder with
all of this lovely markdown in it,
including a little, this is a message
saying this is a beta release.
It's a preview, may change at any time.
So let's commit this.
And I'll show you what I mean by
this playing very nice with GitHub.
So I'm going to the place on GitHub
where I've hosted this new repo.
And we can see that 18 seconds
ago I pushed a new commit.
So this is pretty recent.
Well first,
before I go into settings here,
let me show you what these docs look like
just purely browsing them on GitHub.
So here we go.
This is where if we had multiple
packages like if this were a mono repo,
it's this little pitch for
the monorepo course,
you can see many different packages,
each of their documentation show up here.
And then you could drill into this and
it'll show you the functions that
are available with this nice
little beta indication.
And then if we look at average,
Here's a description and
there's the signature,
here are the parameters, the return type.
It's kind of basic, but
it kind of comes for free.
And mark down kind of works with a lot
of different things with the nice little
breadcrumb up here.
So, here's what I find is a nice synergy.
It used to be that GitHub Pages would.
They had this gh pages branch,
you'd have to commit your static
site to your gh pages branch and
it always felt weird to me to have
a completely unrelated project.
Your documentation,
it's totally different than your source
code, that's on your gh pages branch.
It's not a different version
of your source code.
It's entirely different content.
Now, I could say I want
the source to be master and
I can actually pick this docs folder and
hit save.
And I wonder if,
we'll see if this actually works,
but, Let's check it out.
It's not there yet.
I'll leave it as [LAUGH] an exercise for
the reader to set up the Jekyll theme and
all that.
But the point is,
once you have that theme set up,
GitHub already understands markdown and
can turn those into HTML.
So this could be just an automatic
self publishing thing.
As soon as new content lands in
that docs folder, GitHub Pages,
it's Jekyll static site generation stuff,
will kick into gear, make that HTML,
you'll have that website published.
You don't have to do a thing.
Automatic publishing with each
new commit that lands on master.
So, with this included,
we've got tests, linting, build,
we can tell when our API surface changes.
We can even validate that the API
surface changes described in a pull
request are the extent of the changes.
Nobody forgot to update that report.
Because we're testing that in CI and
now we have API Docs on top of that.
Really, really nice complete feature set.
And I think we've ticked a lot
of the most important boxes for
a library that's authored in TypeScript.
>> Are there any other popular
alternatives aside from our API
documenter?
>> There are, you're talking about for
API Docs Edwin, is that right?
>> Yeah.
>> So yeah, the question is,
are there other alternatives for
documenting APIs and this is a tricky
subject because there are lots of options.
But particularly for projects that might
find themselves halfway between JavaScript
and TypeScript, at least for
a point in time.
There are some solutions
that work very nicely for
just pure TypeScript and then some that
work nicely for just JavaScript and
they just fall apart when
TypeScript gets involved.
So those two exist.
And then there's even
another category like YUIDoc,
where it doesn't even
look at your code at all.
YUIDoc simply reads comments.
And that puts you in a situation
where you have to do duplicate work.
Every functions documentation must say,
by the way,
my functions name is this and the argument
names that I receive are these.
And keeping that in sync,
it's just a huge pain.
So, I've not found a great option
that covers all of those bases.
Things will either fall apart for
modern JavaScript or TypeScript.
Or they won't analyze the code at all.
And it's all on you, as a developer
to write your documentation.
It's almost like they just strip
away anything that's not a comment.
That seems bad too.
So I think that there's a lot of room for
improvement in the space.
If I had to pick one I
probably would use ESDoc.
But you wanna be careful because any
TypeScript specific documentation
tool like TSDoc, I think it is.
Let me make sure that's
what I think it is.
Nope, sorry, it's type doc.
This one here.
So type doc is really interesting but,
The way it's implemented is so
tightly coupled with the compiler API,
that it tends to lag way behind in
terms of new compiler releases.
So TypeScript 4.0 is out right now.
It is entirely possible,
I would not be shocked,
if type doc reported
nothing newer than 3.8.
So it does put you in a position where
you're always trying to catch up,
catch up, catch up.
And it feels silly to me to have
a tool like this hold you back
in terms of language level.
So that's why I wouldn't
necessarily go with this.
ESDoc uses some of the same
technology that ESLint uses
in terms of building up
that abstract syntax tree.
And that is something that Microsoft and
the TypeScript core team themselves,
they help keep that up to date.
And so it chases the new releases
of the compiler a bit more tightly.
And I think it's less
risky to incorporate that.
Now here's the good news though.
Everyone's trying to
align around JSDoc stuff.
The whole point of this is the things that
make for great tooltips in your own app.
Everyone wants that same stuff to
result in great documentation.
So in some ways these tools can be
dropped in like trade one the other.
The API Docs will look different,
but you won't have to go and
retrofit a bunch of stuff
to your own source code.
And if you're interested in learning more,
I'm very passionate about this space.
So I have a little project here,
On GitHub.
It's called JS documentation cases.
And what I have is a variety
of different interesting
projects like single file of
JavaScript single file of TypeScript.
A mix.
Entry point that's JavaScript but
it refers to some type script.
So I have a bunch of these,
seven different, actually,
it's eight because I have a 3.1 here.
So eight different types of projects
times one, two, three, four, five, six,
times eight different tools that can
be used to generate documentation.
And I keep a very close eye on which of
these 64 combinations start to look okay.
Mostly I want you to look at this and
see Mike's done a lot of
research in this area.
And if there were something
that was good and ready to use,
he would probably just tell us to use
that and I'm not saying that right now.
I'm saying API extractor while it
generates basic documentation,
I trust it more than some
of these other things.
In no small part because
Microsoft makes it and
they use it for
all of their own documentation.
And for their own use of TypeScript,
which they make themselves.
So if this breaks, it will break for
them and I trust that they will fix it.
[LAUGH]